I sometimes feel very disconnected from the sources I study. Astrophysics is a field where other scientists always expect you to have beautiful images in your presentations; it's a field where the cliche is getting to look at pretty images all day. But that's not how my research works.

I decided to go into astrophysics because of its philosophical beauty; its study of extremely distant objects, more exotic than anything you can encounter on Earth; its direct connection to cosmology, that oh so vast and beautiful study of the Universe; the beautiful and terrible scales and energies which are paralyzingly unfathomable.

But the closest I get to these things on an emotional and legitimately human level is when I stare at the night sky, or even the twilit sky. The feeling of depth during twilight is breathtaking. But the view of the night sky delivers beautiful motes of light which feel like they are such a part of one's world. Yet that feeling transforms into one of mortality and hazard upon conceptualizing the actual distances involved.

The sources I look at in my research are beautiful, and fearsome. But it is not usual to see detailed optical images of them. The energy bands that I do most of my work in also do not have good angular resolution, in general. Thus I don't get to look at the sources that have become so close to my heart in a way which really communicates their true character.

I still have a sense of wonder about my work, nonetheless. The beauty of revealing details about objects farther away than the human mind can actually comprehend, and gaining an understanding of the large and small scale physics that goes into producing these objects and their radiation is incredible. It is very much different from the childhood dream of seeing vastly alien sights through a telescope. But the incredible sophistication of logic and instrumentation which can eke out such a vast understanding of our Universe, when we exist on such a relatively small scale, is one of the most beautiful sights in the world.
